
Phase 1: Foundational Enhancements & User Feedback

Objective: Address core usability issues, improve scraper reliability with foundational changes, and provide better operational feedback.

1.1. Enhanced Selector Definition & Testing (Non-Visual):

Goal: Allow more robust selector definitions and immediate testing.
Backend (playwrightScraper.js, scraperController.js, Database):
Modify scraper configuration to store an ordered list of selector objects for each data field (e.g., [{type: "css", value: ".title"}, {type: "xpath", value: "//h3/a"}]).
Develop a new API endpoint that accepts a URL and a single selector object (type & value). This endpoint will use Playwright (headless) to:
Navigate to the URL.
Apply the selector.
Return:
Number of elements matched.
Text content/HTML of the first few matched elements (e.g., up to 3).
Any errors encountered.
Frontend:
In the scraper configuration UI, for each field, allow users to add multiple selectors (e.g., CSS, XPath).
Next to each selector input, add a "Test Selector" button that calls the new API endpoint and displays the results (match count, extracted data preview) directly to the user.
Scraping Logic (playwrightScraper.js): During a scrape, for each field, iterate through its selectors in order. Use the first one that successfully extracts data.
1.2. Robust Pagination Module:

Goal: Handle common pagination types reliably.
Backend/Config:
Modify the pagination field in the scraper configuration to be an object:
JSON

"pagination": {
  "type": "nextButton", // options: "nextButton", "numberLinks", "loadMore"
  "selector": ".css-selector-for-the-element", // CSS selector for the pagination element
  "maxPages": 20, // Optional: maximum number of pages to scrape
  "loadMoreClickLimit": 10 // Optional: for "loadMore", max clicks
}
Backend (playwrightScraper.js): Implement logic to handle each type:
nextButton: Click the selector until it's no longer present/disabled or maxPages is reached.
numberLinks: Identify and click sequential page number links (more complex, may need a pattern for link text/href).
loadMore: Click the selector repeatedly until no new content appears or loadMoreClickLimit/maxPages (interpreted as load attempts) is reached.
Frontend: Update UI to configure these pagination options.
1.3. Basic Job Queue Integration (e.g., BullMQ + Redis):

Goal: Improve app responsiveness, scalability, and allow for longer scraping tasks.
Backend (scraperController.js, New Worker Service):
Integrate BullMQ (or similar) and Redis.
Modify scraperController.js so that when a scrape is initiated, it adds a job to the queue with the scraper configuration ID/details. It should immediately return a job ID to the client.
Create a separate worker process that listens to the queue, picks up jobs, and executes the scraping logic (using playwrightScraper.js).
Implement API endpoints to:
Check job status (pending, active, completed, failed) using the job ID.
Potentially retrieve basic progress (e.g., pages scraped if the worker updates this).
Frontend: Update UI to reflect the asynchronous nature (e.g., show "Scraping started, Job ID: X", provide a way to check status).
1.4. Improved Logging & Basic Run Statistics:

Goal: Provide better visibility into scraper performance and issues.
Backend (Worker Service, Database):
During scraping, log key events: navigation to URL, selector success/failure for main items, number of items found on page, pagination actions, errors encountered.
Store for each scraping job/run:
jobId, scraperId, startTime, endTime, status (e.g., "completed," "failed," "completed_with_errors"), totalPagesScraped, totalItemsExtracted, errorMessages (array of key errors).
Frontend:
Create a "Job History" or "Run Log" section, perhaps per scraper, listing past runs with their status, items extracted, and duration. Allow viewing basic logs for a specific run.
1.5. Data Export (CSV):

Goal: Allow users to easily download their scraped data.
Backend: Create an API endpoint that takes a jobId (or scraper ID and filters by last successful run) and returns the scraped data in CSV format.
Frontend: Add a "Download CSV" button in the job history or data preview section.
1.6. Configuration Management - Versioning & Portability Prep:

Goal: Establish a robust way to store and manage scraper configurations.
Backend (Database):
Ensure scraper configurations (including new selector structures, pagination options) are stored in a structured way in the database (e.g., a dedicated table with JSONB for the config details).
Add a version field to the scraper configuration schema (e.g., starting with 1.0).
Implement basic API endpoints for CRUD operations on scraper configurations (Create, Read, Update, Delete).
Frontend: UI for listing, creating, editing, and deleting scraper configurations.
Phase 2: Visual Setup, Deeper Insights & Enhanced Robustness

Objective: Revolutionize scraper setup with a visual tool, provide more meaningful statistics, and further enhance scraper reliability using DOM snapshots.

2.1. Hybrid Setup Wizard (Visual Selector - Core Implementation):

Goal: Allow users to define main item selectors and child field selectors visually.
Backend (scraperController.js, New Setup Service):
Create an API endpoint that takes a URL. This endpoint will:
Launch Playwright in headed mode (ensure this is secure, possibly isolated).
Inject a client-side script into the loaded page to handle element selection (hover highlighting, click capture).
Provide a way for the client-side script to send back selected element information (e.g., unique selectors, tag info) via WebSocket or repeated polling to the backend.
Frontend (New Setup UI Page):
User inputs a target URL.
The page is loaded in an iframe (ensure sandboxing) or a dedicated view that communicates with the backend's headed browser session.
Step 1: Main Repeating Element Selection: User clicks on one of the repeating items (e.g., a product card in a list). The injected script should help generate a robust CSS selector for this main element. User confirms.
Step 2: Child Element Selection: Within a highlighted instance of the main element, user clicks on individual data points (title, price, phone). For each click, the script generates a selector relative to the main element. User assigns a field name (e.g., "name," "phone") to each.
Step 3: DOM Snapshot & Hash: Once selectors are defined, the backend (triggered by frontend) takes a snapshot of the DOM structure of the setup page.
Optimization: Initially, this could be the full document.body.innerHTML. Later, refine to snapshot only relevant subtrees or strip scripts/styles/irrelevant tags to reduce size.
Calculate a hash (e.g., SHA256) of this snapshot.
Store the visually generated selectors, the DOM snapshot (or a reference if stored separately), and its hash with the scraper configuration.
UI/UX:
Clear visual cues for highlighting and selection.
Ability to "undo" last selection.
Live preview of the selector being generated and the data it would extract from the selected example.
Warnings if a generated selector seems too generic (e.g., div > span that might match hundreds of elements unintentionally).
2.2. Runtime DOM Verification & Fallback Logic (playwrightScraper.js):

Goal: Use DOM snapshot hash to detect site changes and trigger fallback selector logic.
Backend (playwrightScraper.js):
Before scraping a page, fetch its current DOM (or relevant part).
Calculate its hash and compare it with the stored hash from setup.
If Hashes Match: Proceed with primary selectors (defined visually or manually).
If Hashes Mismatch:
Log a warning: "DOM structure may have changed for [URL]."
Attempt to use primary selectors first.
If primary selectors fail for a field, attempt defined fallback selectors (from Phase 1.1) in order.
If all selectors fail, log the error for that field/item.
Store information about hash mismatches in the run statistics.
2.3. Enhanced Statistics Dashboard:

Goal: Provide users with more actionable insights into scraper performance.
Backend (Database Queries, API Endpoints):
Develop queries to calculate:
Scraper-Specific: Total runs, success rate (%), failure rate (%), average items scraped per run, date of last run. Data for a line chart: items scraped over the last N runs or over time.
Overall: Total active scrapers, global success/failure rates, frequently failing scrapers.
Frontend:
Create a dedicated "Statistics" page.
Display scraper-specific stats with charts (e.g., using Chart.js or similar).
Show overall system statistics.
2.4. Proxy Configuration & Management:

Goal: Enable scraping from sites that may block frequent requests from a single IP.
Backend (playwrightScraper.js, Config):
Allow users to configure a list of proxies (e.g., http://user:pass@host:port) for a scraper.
Integrate proxy rotation into Playwright launch contexts or per-request.
Frontend: UI section in scraper configuration to add/manage a list of proxies.
2.5. Data Preview Before Full Scrape:

Goal: Allow users to quickly test their full scraper configuration on a single page.
Backend: API endpoint that takes a scraper configuration ID/details, runs it only on the starting URL (or first page if pagination is involved), and returns the extracted data (e.g., first 5-10 items).
Frontend: "Test Run" or "Preview Scrape" button in the scraper configuration view. Display results in a structured table.
Phase 3: Advanced Capabilities, Scalability & Polish

Objective: Introduce more advanced features for power users, further improve robustness, and refine the application for scalability and ease of maintenance.

3.1. Selector Stability Score & Drift Management Aids:

Goal: Help users create more resilient selectors and understand when sites change.
Backend (Setup Service, playwrightScraper.js):
During visual setup (Phase 2.1), after a selector is generated, analyze its characteristics (e.g., reliance on unique IDs vs. volatile classes, depth in DOM, specificity). Assign a "stability score" (e.g., "High," "Medium," "Low") with a brief explanation.
Advanced (Config Diffing): If a hash mismatch occurs during a run (Phase 2.2), attempt to fetch the new DOM. If possible, store it and provide a UI to highlight differences between the setup DOM snapshot and the new DOM, especially around areas where selectors failed. This is a complex feature.
Frontend: Display stability score during setup. If config diffing is implemented, provide a view to compare DOMs.
3.2. Advanced Statistics & Trend Alerts:

Goal: Provide deeper insights and proactive notifications.
Backend:
For numeric data fields (if type can be inferred or set by user), calculate min/max/average values per run/over time.
For categorical fields, count occurrences of each category.
Implement basic trend detection (e.g., "Number of items scraped from Scraper X dropped by >50% compared to average").
Frontend: Display these advanced stats. Implement a notification system (UI or email) for significant trend alerts.
3.3. Data Transformation Layer:

Goal: Allow basic data cleaning and formatting directly within the app.
Backend (playwrightScraper.js, Config):
For each field in the scraper config, allow an array of transformation rules:
JSON

"transformations": [
  {"type": "trimWhitespace"},
  {"type": "regexReplace", "pattern": "\\s+", "replacement": " "},
  {"type": "removeText", "textToRemove": "Sponsored"},
  {"type": "prependText", "textToPrepend": "SKU: "}
]
Apply these transformations after data extraction.
Frontend: UI to define these transformation rules per field.
3.4. Auto-Labeling Fields (Heuristic Suggestion):

Goal: Speed up visual configuration.
Frontend (Visual Setup Wizard): When a user clicks to select a child element, analyze its attributes (name, id, class, placeholder) and surrounding text content. Suggest a field name (e.g., if placeholder="Enter your email", suggest "email"). User can accept or override.
3.5. User Authentication & Scraper Sharing (Optional - if multi-user):

Goal: Support multiple users and collaboration.
Backend/Frontend: Implement user registration, login, and session management. Associate scrapers, job history, and stats with user accounts. Optionally, allow users to share scraper configurations (read-only or full access) with other users.
3.6. Enhanced Alerting System:

Goal: Proactive notifications for critical events.
Backend (Worker Service, Notification Service):
Expand beyond trend alerts. Notify users (UI/email) for:
Repeated scraper job failures (e.g., 3 consecutive failures).
Successful completion of very long-running jobs.
Hash mismatches indicating site structure changes.
General Developer Guidelines:

Code Quality: Maintain clean, modular, well-documented, and testable code (ESLint, Prettier).
Testing:
Unit Tests: For backend logic (selector parsing, transformation functions, queue interaction, statistics calculation).
Integration Tests: For API endpoints and interaction between services (controller, worker, database).
E2E Tests (Playwright): For key user flows (scraper setup, job execution, data export). Test against a diverse set of local/mock HTML pages to simulate various website structures.
Error Handling: Implement comprehensive error handling throughout. Log errors effectively (both for debugging and for user feedback). Return meaningful error messages via the API.
API Design: Design RESTful APIs with clear request/response schemas. Consider API documentation tools (e.g., Swagger/OpenAPI).
Database Management: Use migrations (e.g., Knex.js, TypeORM migrations) for any database schema changes to ensure smooth updates.
Security:
Sanitize all user inputs.
Ensure proper sandboxing and security measures if loading external content directly in iframes during visual setup.
Protect against common web vulnerabilities (XSS, CSRF, SQLi).
Securely manage API keys or credentials if interacting with third-party services.
Documentation:
Update existing READMEs and provide developer documentation for new modules, services, and complex logic.
Maintain user-facing documentation/guides for new features.